(1)	Pakistan shall be a Federal Republic to be known as the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, hereinafter referred to as Pakistan.
 

(2)	The territories of Pakistan shall comprise:-
(a)	the Provinces of  2[Balochistan] 2, the  3[Khyber Pakthunkhwa] 3, the Punjab and  4[Sindh] 4 ;
(b)	the Islamabad Capital Territory, hereinafter referred to as the Federal Capital;
(c)	Federally Administered Tribal Areas; and
(d)	such States and territories as are or may be included in Pakistan, whether by accession or otherwise.
 
(3)	 5[Majlis-e-Shoora (Parliament)] 5 may by law admit into the Federation new States or areas on such terms and conditions as it thinks fit.
@
Islam shall be the State religion of Pakistan.
@
The State shall ensure the elimination of all forms of exploitation and the gradual fulfillment of the fundamental principle, from each according to his ability to each according to his work.
@
(1)	To enjoy the protection of law and to be treated in accordance with law is the inalienable right of every citizen, wherever he may be, and of every other person for the time being within Pakistan.
 
(2)	In particular :-
(a)	no action detrimental to the life, liberty, body, reputation or property of any person shall be taken except in accordance with law;
(b)	no person shall be prevented from or be hindered in doing that which is not prohibited by law; and
(c)	no person shall be compelled to do that which the law does not require him to do.
@
(1)	Loyalty to the State is the basic duty of every citizen.
 
(2)	Obedience to the Constitution and law is the  7[inviolable] 7 obligation of every citizen wherever he may be and of every other person for the time being within Pakistan.
@
(1)	Any person who abrogates or subverts or suspends or holds in abeyance, or attempts or conspires to abrogate or subvert or suspend or hold in abeyance, the Constitution by use of force or show of force or by any other unconstitutional means shall be guilty of high treason.
 
(2)	Any person aiding or abetting  9[or collaborating] 9 the acts mentioned in clause (1) shall likewise be guilty of high treason.

(2A)	An act of high treason mentioned in clause (1) or clause (2) shall not be validated by any court including the Supreme Court and a High Court.

(3)	 11[Majlis-e-Shoora (Parliament)] 11 shall by law provide for the punishment of persons found guilty of high treason.
 


 
